preliminary:
    learn C# environment
    learn Unity environment
    learn CiF
    devise an appropriate plan before starting 
    
Time management:
    32-40 hr work week
    4:1 production:research
    
Development styles:
    test-driven when practical
    high levels of planning/engineering before coding (100% complete understanding before starting to code)
    Document process while working
    research scientific papers and real-world games 
    
Initial game development goal:
    1. design a minimal game character and get it moving around the screen
        a. requires Cif, C#, Unity.
        b. characters should have a minimum personality

Game Mechanics:
    Visuals:
        1. 2D or 2.5D
        2. character portrait cards for PC/NPC when talking
        3. setting: 
            a. feel a little more urban when in the city area but still have a natural environment.
            b. The natural environment should reflect a sense of loneliness and mystery.
            c. maybe have locations with minimal color schemes (old GB color pokemon games) to reflect
               the mood of a location. (cool colors, warm colors, monochromatic, greyscale)
            d. include various elements that suggest that wildlife is near (bushes moving, splash in the water)
        4. top-down rpg style
        
    Audio:
        Less music, okay with strange music.
        minimal noise: sometimes only the walking sounds or none at all
        include nature sounds, mysterious sounds, city sounds
        
    Social interactions:
        1. player portrait cards used for dialog
        2. non-linear player social interactions --> CiF
        3. Build a base model that can include all sentient beings
        4. have a large number of tourist types that can offer much more than one phrase.
            a. have personalities.
            b. can be a significant source of the player's income.
            c. maybe gain penpal status with these people
            e. critique art, music, writing
            f. requires that all game characters build the same way with the same social structure an rule
    
    Players play style
        1. work/social balance
            a. Where does the player spend their time?
            b. working give more money but fewer friends and Vise-Versa
                1. working should invoke unique social interactions (art shows, concerts, poetry readings, book releases/signings)
        2. Socializing: the primary focus of the game.
            a. most if not all of the mechanics for this should be hidden from the player
                1. Stardew Valley has a series of hearts to inform the player of there relationships. I would like to
                   Abandon any menus indicating the relationship status.
                2. Perhaps only have two symbols indicating the relationship
                    a. one might be a circle with a color in it.  Something like a mood ring.
                        1. indicates current primary mood of the player
                    b. the other might be a shape with a transparent color
                        1. the color may suggest the primary relationship the player has with the character (enemy, friend, family)
                            a. if the relationship is 40% friend, 30% enemy, 20% lover and 10% stranger the color will reflect friend
                            b. it is up to the player to detect and/or alter this relationship 
                        2. the opacity may indicate the strength of the relationship. 
            b. In the context of social interactions, the game must reside in the content of the dialog
                1. Don't use menus or a visible leveling system here.  It's all about the dialog
                    a. the player decides when to ask another player out based on their intuition with a little help from
                       the colored icon on the player's portrait.
                2. Include nothing more than an address/log of NPCs with necessary information like their profession.
            c. Devise a reward system for socializing. Idea listing (Why should someone spend the time to do it)
                1. Boost careers through social channels
                2. gain financial and item benefits
                3. set up goals that the character strives for
                    a. might be similar to the sims or prom week.
                    b. social biased goals (lover, want to start a family, being the dandy) 
            
        3. players career: the minor focus
            a. money does not come easy (like in the sims), not suitable for hoarding, should not focus on money.
            b. Cost to live.
                1. maybe no eating or drinking but getting a grocery bill
                2. utilities, rent, working supplies all cost
                3. these cost just enough to force the player to spend 25%(more or less) of their time working.
            c. Start off with a chunk of money to get started.
            d. all working professions are artistic in nature
                1. include, at a minimum, a minigame to illustrate work completion.
                    a. make more in-depth if able
                2. slow work down to take days, weeks or even months to complete (depending on the profession 
                   and funds the player has)
                    a. there should be a sense of labor to create a work.
                    b. This should be by the players choosing. (submitting underworked to overworked to the market)
            e. Use leveling and menus for working
                1. Let the game reside in menus and minigames here
                2. Level up system for as much as possible
                    a. levels reflect product quality, speed of production, and in-game player satisfaction.
                    b. higher levels unlock new avenues or all avenues are unlocked but take higher levels to accomplish
                        1. the latter can allow the actual player's skill to be taken into account                        
            f. how to make money with each profession
                1. Job board. Include listings for less attractive work like writing a technical manual or cat painting
                    a. probably how everyone gets started
                2. Direct sales to players
                    a. gained by social interactions.
                    b. tourist
                3. Sales through local businesses.
                    a. gain standing with a business through social means.
                    b. The company will sell your work or advertise.
                    c. business will keep a percentage of the selling price based on your social standing with them
                4. Outside, unseen entities (outside art galleries, publishing houses ..etc.)
                    a. reserved for players who take their career to the top.
                    b. This requires substantial renown, thus a large pool of successful social interactions
                    c. not represented by graphics in any way.
            g. Choosing a profession before starting the game
                1. Choose a profession when the game first starts (same location as pc graphics and name info)
                2. gain a bonus in the career path. the minimum amount for money-generating purposes
                    a. have other abilities as well, but will have to do them as a hobby before you are good enough to make
                       money with them. 
        
        4. players lodging ideas:
            a. I like Stardew on this point. Simple plain.
            b. Maybe have house upgrades.
            c. maybe rent a place in town before buying a house
            d. have a rentable location for the more successful player to conduct their trade
                1. possibly even hire someone
                2. don't take this to far, not a tycoon game
            
        5. Time and game flow
            1. The game should revolve around time. (much like Stardew valley)
                a. slow time down compared to Stardew, perhaps an hour == a minute realtime
                b. do not force players to sleep
            2. include time-wasters like tv or reading
                a. these don't benefit the characters in any way.
                b. The sole purpose of these is to pass the time.
                c. no real graphics included
            3. sleep controls how well players perform.
                a. players should sleep 8hrs a night to be at 100%
                b. Any sleep debt causes all skills to decrement until they cannot perform them.
                c. sleep debt should negatively affect social interactions
                    1. increase the likelihood that pc comments are negative
                    2. the less sleep, the worse the player's attitude becomes.
                d. Rest should have some effect on every element in the game.  
        
        6. Dialog setup and flow
            1. single text box of a fixe size for all text
            2. generate dialog based on internal and external elements
                a. this is the real difficulty that the game depends on
            3. PC replies by choosing one choice of from many based on possible dialogs connected to internal and external
               elements
                a. pc shouldn't have to choose every time it is there turn to talk but happen very frequently.
                b. NPCs dialog should result in the automation of picking from there list.
                c. every chosen line of dialog is caused by CiF statistics
                    1. an NPC blurts out that they love you after a duration of romance.
                d. every chosen line of dialog affects the CiF statistics
                    1. You tell the NPC you just want to be friends severely hurting them 
                    2. effects of a situation vary in magnitude based on the circumstances
                        a. can have temporary or permanent effects   
        
        7. Adventure modes
            1. Reserved if the near-finished product is missing something that adventures can fill
            2. NPCs can worry about the player that heads off on a dangerous task
                a. I feel like an NPC worrying over a PC can cause the actual player to invest themselves in these characters
        
        8. The feel of the gameplay. 
            1. Going for a relaxed relatively easy gameplay  with little stress involved
            2. build relationships with characters the intern cause the actual player to become invested in the stories of
               this fictional world
            3. The overall theme will be more on the positive side
                a. can have negative consequences. (Don't be a jerk)          
            
        
 
